Add the Conditional Logic and Dynamic Texts help topic (#4597)
surveyjs/survey-library: docs/design-survey-conditional-logic.md

```js
console.log(survey.getVariable("currentyear"));
```

You can also call the [`getVariableNames()`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Library?id=surveymodel#getVariableNames) method to get a list of all available variables:

```js
console.log(survey.getVariableNames()); // Outputs [ "currentyear" ]
```

### Calculated Values

Calculated values allow you to register an [expression](#expressions) under a required name. If the expression includes [questions](#question-values), [variables](#variables), or [functions](#built-in-functions), it is recalculated each time their values are changed.

To configure a calculated value, define the [`calculatedValues`](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Library?id=surveymodel#calculatedValues) array in the survey JSON definition. Each object in this array should contain the following fields:

- `name` - A name that identifies the calculated value.
- `expression` - An expression that returns the calculated value.

> - `includeIntoResult` - A Boolean property that specifies whether to include the calculated value into survey results.

Reviewer: `includeIntoResult` - A Boolean property that specifies whether to include the calculated value in survey results.

#### Access Survey Elements Within a Custom Function

You can access any survey element via a [survey instance](https://surveyjs.io/Documentation/Library?id=surveymodel). Use the `this.survey` property to get the survey instance within your custom function implementation. This property allows you to design your function so that it accepts a survey element name as a parameter:

```js
"expression": "myFunc('questionName')"
```

Within the function implementation, you can use the passed name to get the instance of the corresponding element:

```js
function myFunc(params) {
  const questionInstance = this.survey.getQuestionByName(params[0]);
  // ...
}
```

#### Asynchronous Functions

If an expression requires time-consuming calculations or a request to a server, implement an asynchronous custom function. The following code shows an example of an asynchronous function:

```js
function asyncFunc(params: any[]): any {
  // Preserve the context variable to access the `returnResult` callback later
  var self = this;
  setTimeout(function() {
    // Return the function result via the callback
    self.returnResult(yourValue);
  }, 100);
}
```

> After you implement an asynchronous function, register it in the `FunctionFactory`. The third parameter specifies if this function is asynchronous: 

Reviewer: After you implement an asynchronous function, register it in `FunctionFactory`. The third parameter specifies if this function is asynchronous:

- [View the "Conditional Visibility" example](/Examples/Library?id=condition-kids)
- [View the "Enable/Disable Elements" example](/Examples/Library?id=condition-enable-kids)

### Item Visibility (Choices, Columns, Rows)

SurveyJS allows you to control available choices, columns, and rows based on previous answers.

#### Specify Visibility Conditions for Individual Items

Individual items (choices, columns, rows) can be configured with objects. Each object can have a `visibleIf` property that accepts an expression. When the expression evaluates to `true`, the associated item becomes visible.

In the following code, the `SMS` and `WhatsApp` choices are visible only if a user has entered their phone number:

```js
const surveyJson = {
  "elements": [{
    "name": "Contacts"
    "choices": [
      "Email",
      { "value": "SMS", "visibleIf": "{phone} notempty" },
      { "value": "WhatsApp", "visibleIf": "{phone} notempty" }
    ]
  },
  // ...
  ]
}
```

[View example](https://surveyjs.io/Examples/Library?id=condition-choicesVisibleIf)

> This technique has one drawback: if a question contains many items, you have to copy the same expression into every item that should have dynamic visibility. If that is your case, use a technique described in the next topic.

Reviewer: This technique has one drawback: if a question contains many items, you have to copy the same expression into every item that should have dynamic visibility. If that is your case, use the technique described in the next topic.

```js
const surveyJson = {
  "elements": [{
    "name": "age", 
    // ...
  }, {
    "name": "ageType",
    // ...
  }],
  "triggers": [{
    "type": "setvalue",
    "expression": "{age} < 18",
    "setToName": "ageType",
    "setValue": "minor"
  }, {
    "type": "setvalue",
    "expression": "{age} >= 18",
    "setToName": "ageType",
    "setValue": "adult"
  }]
}
```

---

### `copyvalue`

Copies a value from one question to another. The `fromName` property specifies the source question; the `setToName` property specifies the target question.

In the following code, a trigger copies the `"billingAddress"` question value into the `"shippingAddress"` question if the `"sameAsBilling"` question is `Yes`:

```js
const surveyJson = {
  "elements": [{
    "name": "billingAddress", 
    // ...
  }, {
    "name": "shippingAddress",
    // ...
  }, {
    "name": "sameAsBilling",
    "choices": [ "Yes", "No" ]
    // ...
  }],
  "triggers": [{
    "type": "copyvalue",
    "expression": "{sameAsBilling} = 'Yes'",
    "fromName": "billingAddress",
    "setToName": "shippingAddress"
  }]
}
```

---

### `runexpression`

> If the `expression` is `true`, runs another expression specified by the `runExpression` property. You can also save the result of `runExpression` as a question value. For this, assign the question's name to the `setToName` property.

Reviewer: If the `expression` is `true`, the trigger runs another expression specified by the `runExpression` property. You can also save the result of `runExpression` as a question value. For this, assign the question's name to the `setToName` property.

  An expression that evaluates to a string value. The following string expression evaluates to `"Adult"` if the [`age`](#age) function returns a value of 21 or higher; otherwise, the expression evaluates to `"Minor"`:

    ```js
    "expression": "iif(age({birthdate}) >= 21, 'Adult', 'Minor')"
    ```

- **Numeric expression**    
  An expression that evaluates to a number. The following numeric expression evaluates to the sum of the `total1` and `total2` question values:

    ```js
    "expression": "sum({total1}, {total2})"
    ```

- **Boolean expression**    
  An expression that evaluates to `true` or `false`. Boolean expressions are widely used to implement conditional logic. Refer to the following help topic for more information: [Conditional Visibility](#conditional-visibility).

Expressions can include question names, variables, and calculated values (described in the [Dynamic Texts](#dynamic-texts) section). Plus expressions can use [built-in](#built-in-functions) and [custom functions](#custom-functions).

### Built-In Functions

Functions allow you to perform additional calculations within an expression. One expression can contain multiple function calls.

> Functions can accept arguments. For example, the following expression shows the built-in [`age`](#age) and [`iif`](#iif) functions. `age` accepts the value of a `birthdate` question. `iif` accepts three arguments: a condition, a value to return when the condition is truthy, and a value to return when the condition is falsy.

Author: [Truthy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Truthy) and [falsy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/falsy) are legit terms in JavaScript world.

- [`setvalue`](#setvalue)
- [`copyvalue`](#copyvalue)
- [`runexpression`](#runexpression)
  
---

### `complete`

Completes the survey. The `expression` is evaluated only when a user switches to the next page.

In the following code, a trigger completes the survey if the `"age"` question on this page has a value under 18:

```js
const surveyJson = {
  "elements": [{
    "name": "age", 
    // ...
  }],
  "triggers": [
    { "type": "complete", "expression": "{age} < 18" }
  ]
}
```
---

### `setvalue`

Sets a specified value to a given question. The `setValue` property specifies the value; the `setToName` property specifies the question name.

In the following code, triggers are used to set the `"ageType"` value to `"minor"` or `"adult"` based on the `"age"` question value:

```js
const surveyJson = {
  "elements": [{
    "name": "age", 
    // ...
  }, {
    "name": "ageType",
    // ...
  }],
  "triggers": [{
    "type": "setvalue",
    "expression": "{age} < 18",
    "setToName": "ageType",
    "setValue": "minor"
  }, {
    "type": "setvalue",
    "expression": "{age} >= 18",
    "setToName": "ageType",
    "setValue": "adult"
  }]
}
```

---

### `copyvalue`

> Copies a value from one question to another. The `fromName` property specifies the source question; the `setToName` property specifies the target question.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copies a value from between questions. The `fromName` property specifies the source question; the `setToName` property specifies the target question.
```

In the following code, a trigger copies the `"billingAddress"` question value into the `"shippingAddress"` question if the `"sameAsBilling"` question is `Yes`:

```js
const surveyJson = {
  "elements": [{
    "name": "billingAddress", 
    // ...
  }, {
    "name": "shippingAddress",
    // ...
  }, {
    "name": "sameAsBilling",
    "choices": [ "Yes", "No" ]
    // ...
  }],
  "triggers": [{
    "type": "copyvalue",
    "expression": "{sameAsBilling} = 'Yes'",
    "fromName": "billingAddress",
    "setToName": "shippingAddress"
  }]
}
```

---

### `runexpression`

> If the `expression` is `true`, runs another expression specified by the `runExpression` property. You can also save the result of `runExpression` as a question value. For this, assign the question's name to the `setToName` property.

Reviewer 2: > If the `expression` is `true`, **runs** another expression specified by the `runExpression` property.

Who runs?

Author: The trigger obviously. This is the same pattern used in the previous descriptions of triggers, just with an if-part.
